as our last program of the day let's
talk about defining functions in Java so
again I'm going to use Python it's the
simple example
I'm gonna say over here let's define a
function called larger and what it's
gonna do is take two variables x and y
and if X happens to be bigger than Y
we'll return X otherwise we'll return Y
that's it and then we might say let's
print the larger of negative 5 and 10
and hopefully we get yeah okay so what
should the Java version of this look
like the larger version are said that
Java version of it should look like well
we'll make a class called larger demo
and then if we wanted to find a function
we can't put it up here all right if we
tried to define a function up here right
like define larger or whatever that
would not work in Java all code must be
part of a class so I'm actually going to
do the function definition here now the
special phrase I'm going to use instead
of Def in Java I'm gonna say public
static and then I'm gonna make a
function name called larger on X Y then
I might say something like if it X is
bigger than Y return X otherwise return
a Y now if I try compiling this since
Java is a statically typed language it
yells at man it says you need to tell me
what X is what Y is and indeed what
larger is supposed to return so we need
to say X has type Y has a type let's say
they're integers and then larger itself
needs a type which we'll put right here
right before the name of the function ok
so now that I've written this this is a
proper program that contains the
function larger and then the call to the
function will put in the main method so
this is what actually gets run when we
run the program so if we want to
actually get larger to run we need to do
something like this so now we run this
and we get tap so these will be
equivalent programs Python and Java so
some notes here
to define a function in Java actually
we'll do one functions must be part of a
class as unlike Python or other
languages this is not part of any class
it's just a function that exists but
here functions must be declared as part
of a class in Java
okay and as a quick aside a function
that is part of a class is called a
method LM Java all functions are methods
ok this is just some programming
language terminology that's pretty
common to to define a function in Java
we use public static and we will see
alternate ways of defining functions
later so they're not always public
static this isn't quite the same thing
as def but for our purposes today
it basically is next we have all
parameters of a function must have a
declared type and the return value of
the function must have a declared type
okay so here are declared type is int so
for example we tried to say like string
x equals larger minus 5 10 we would get
a compiler error larger is a function
that returns
intz this is a string variable and maybe
I guess I'll mention just as an aside
functions and Java return only one value
okay so I can't say like int string and
then I have like two things come out of
large that's not allowed in Java you get
one thing so that's basically the idea
of how we or the idea behind how we
define functions in Java and that's it
for programming for today now I don't
expect that me having done all these
demos that you could just walk right out
there and write a bunch of programs you
could write functions because like
anything it takes practice so there are
labs that go with this set of videos
there's a book and I encourage you to
experiment with those in order to gain a
deeper understanding but we're not quite
done yet so I want to make some
observations about the code
you'll notice that throughout the code
ma there's not much here but we've named
things in a way that makes the code self
readable
what is this class do well it's a demo
of the larger function what does this
function do what's called larger we
didn't call it f I mean we've got a call
to F that's the work just the same but
the code as written here is more
descriptive so one of the very important
things we're gonna teach you in this
class or hope to write because we're not
gonna manually examine your code so I
guess you could get away with it trick
us but what I think you should really
strive for even though we're not
watching right over your shoulder is the
right code that is going to be self
documenting that's readable above all
else
you should write code that if someone
looks at it they can understand it there
are plenty of other ways that you could
write this code oh it this way I think
is one of the very clearest okay one
other little thing I'll mention is that
well right here I've been showing you
comments obviously in your code you're
not gonna have a big paragraph at the
end explaining all the things we
observed writing it instead what you
want to do is make sure that where you
do use comments it's there so that
someone else can understand your code so
I'd say there's not really much to
comment in this program except that
there's a general rule of thumb that
when you write a function it's nice to
put a little comment at the top
describing what it does so in Python it
might look something like this returns
the larger of xny and these triple
quotes in Java the common convention is
to do slash star of stars an extra star
here for our block comet and write the
description that returns the larger of x
and y okay now in this case it's a
little silly but there are tools that
exist that will take source code find
all of the slash star star comments and
generate a nice HTML document and so for
that reason you're encouraged to always
use Java comments even whenever a
function is pretty self-explanatory
now the Java doc format sometimes people
also add little tags here so you can add
you know
there's various conventions but you can
write things like precondition and
explain thing you expect to be true
before the function or whatever there's
a whole different set of ideas about
what kind of tags you can have we're not
gonna tip acquire those in this class of
a do be aware they exist it is also
pretty common to write a Java Docs
screen string at the beginning something
like demonstrates creation of a larger
method or creation of a method in Java
something like that right I mean mmm
this is kind of weird meta thing since
it's actually just for instruction so
you might have Java Doc's at the top mmm
for this case I don't maybe not but yeah
so be aware this is a good practice but
the most important thing is not the the
minor details of the tags or slash
darkstar's it's really you should be
striving to make sure your code is
readable to other people and sometimes
you'll find that those other people are
actually you what do I mean by that well
you write a program in September of 2014
and then May of 2018 rolls around and
you need to fix it it is a great favor
to yourself in the future to write code
that is understandable